This working paper begins with an overview of the trends in the volume of emergency department visits across 21 OECD countries. It then explores the main drivers of emergency department visits in hospital settings, paying attention to both demand and supply side determinants. Thereafter, national approaches instituted by countries to reduce the demand for emergency care and to guarantee a more efficient use of emergency resources are presented. Insecticides that kill the mosquito and drugs that kill the parasite are the only weapons presently available to fight the unbearably high human malaria toll. As mosquito and parasite resistance to these agents limits their effectiveness and there is currently no effective malaria vaccine available, clearly new means to fight the disease must be developed. This chapter explores the feasibility of an alternative strategy: rather than kill the vector mosquito, modify it to render it incapable of sustaining parasite development. This chapter investigates genetically modifying the symbiotic bacteria that naturally occur in the mosquitoes midgut, by producing bacteria that carry the same anti parasite genes. Major remaining challenges are to devise means to introduce the modified bacteria into mosquitoes in the field and to resolve regulatory and ethical issues related to the release of genetically modified organisms in nature. Life expectancy in the Czech Republic is higher than in several neighbouring countries and infant mortality rates are amongst the lowest in the OECD. Some indicators of the quality of care show very strong performance 30 day mortality after acute myocardial infarction is below average and stroke 30 day mortality is only slightly above the OECD average. Nevertheless, compared with other OECD countries, other measures such as regular, open comparison of local quality indicators are less developed. The Czech Republic foremost aim should be to move to a quality architecture that allows the continuous, detailed and transparent measurement of health service performance. A more sophisticated data infrastructure will be needed to achieve this, as well as greater consistency of vision, policies and coordination across central government authorities.