implementing a more comprehensive alcohol policy package, including pricing policies, limiting advertising and introducing regulation of alcohol sports sponsorship, can help tackle harmful alcohol consumption in brazil. embedding more systematically screening and brief interventions in primary health care, and implementing education and awareness programmes, are other key strategies to combat alcohol consumption and reduce its harmful consequences in brazil. building on published patient safety research literature, this paper aims to broaden the existing knowledge base on safety lapses occurring in primary and ambulatory care settings.the findings of this paper show that safety lapses in primary and ambulatory care are common. about half of the global burden of patient harm originates in primary and ambulatory care, and estimates suggest that nearly four out of ten patients experience safety issue(s) in their interaction with this setting. safety lapses in primary and ambulatory care most often result in an increased need for care or hospitalisations. available evidence estimates the direct costs of safety lapses the additional tests, treatments and health care in primary and ambulatory care to be around 2.5% of total health expenditure. safety lapses resulting in hospitalisations each year may count 6% of total hospital bed days and more than 7 million admissions in the oecd. in chile, cancer is the second leading cause of death and could become the first cause in the near future. in order to reduce the disease burden, chile could do more to prevent many deaths due to cancer through cancer screening and prevention. this chapter describes the epidemiological burden of cancer in chile, assesses the governance of chilean cancer care system and public health policies in terms of prevention and early detection of cancer based on cross national comparisons, and concludes with a number of policy recommendations which could help chile strengthen cancer screening and prevention. 